From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists and
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number two 47.
Recorded live Thursday, January 30th, 2010. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Tellerik rad control, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with John
Wilger about going from agile
consultant to agile team member.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
we have a studio guests
and by studio guests. I
mean, my spare bedroom now
has a person in it,
which is great. So we're
doing a local show here
and I'm sitting with my
friend, John Wilger, who has
been so kind as to
join me on his vacation.
How's it going? Pretty good.
Thanks for coming by. And
you may hear the ambient
noises of two small children
upstairs beating their heads into
the ground. So put up
with that, which was quieter
than my four kids at
home. So, so it was
a good choice that we
came here. So you were
a consultant for a long
time and then came to
work at the company that
you're at right now, which
is a change from what
you were doing before. Talk
to me about that. Right?
So the company I work
for now is a renewable
funding and it was originally
just project DX here in
Portland. And I started consulting
with them in 2008 and
came on for a couple
of reasons, basically to do
some agile coaching for a
small team and also to
help lead some of the
technology cause they were starting
to implement the site and
rails really enjoyed the team
that I was working with
there. They really kind of
got agile development really well,
and they made me an
offer to come on as
a full time employee, probably
about six months in and
decided to take it. Cause
I really wanted to see
where that team was going
to go. I wanted to
stick around with it and
not too long after that,
the company actually ended up
getting bought by renewable funding.
Who's based out of California
and the guy that was
running our team at the
time decided that he wanted
to move on to something
else at that point. And
I was given the opportunity
to actually manage the team.
So that was a big
change for me, cause it
was the first time for
me managing a software development
team from kind of the
human resources perspective. So you
were an agile coach, which
a lot of people kind
of apply that, that, that
label. I want to understand
like what an agile coach
does and which is a
kind of management. And then
you've made this transition into
a more kind of a
formal management Role, Right? I
think as far as agile
coaching, the way I looked
at it was, you know,
you have to have a
group of people that are
interested in doing agile correctly.
And then the job of
the coach is kind of
to make sure, kind of
guide them along the way
of making good decisions. It
took me a while to
actually get good at doing
that. In fact, when I
first moved to Portland, the
first job that I had
here, I was brought in
specifically to help transition a
team to an agile development
process had been practicing agile
for several years at that
point, but had never really
transitioned the team to it
and made the mistake and
that team of kind of
coming in and just saying,
okay, I've, you know, read
the books, been doing this
for a while and here's
how we're going to do
it. And let's go ahead
and change everything. And of
course there was some resistance
on the team. You know,
there were a couple of
developers that wanted to do
it, but there were a
couple that weren't so sold
on doing things that way.
And I think, you know,
I didn't, I wasn't there
long enough to have a
lot of trust with the
team at that point. So
I changed things, say, okay,
we're going to do everything
this way. And they didn't
work. Right. I mean, people
resist, there were a couple
of places where it fell
down and that company, you
know, that's probably one of
the biggest mistakes in my
career really of doing it
that way, because I think
I've forever ruined agile, that
company with that move because
they kind of looked at
it like, Oh, okay, yeah,
this agile development stuff, isn't
really gonna work. Let's just
kind of go back to
doing what we were doing
before. What I took from
that is that it's more
important to kind of come
into a position. And instead
of trying to change everything
right away, you got to
kind of work with the
people on the ground and
know what problems they're facing
and just sit alongside them,
develop, do some pair programming,
if you can, things like
that. And once you understand
the problems that they're having,
you can kind of understand,
okay, let's make a little
tweak here, you know, change
this here and start to
move things towards an agile
process, which is a little
bit different than I think
a lot of agile consultants
want to do when they
come into a place. There
are a lot of people
that say, Oh, we need
to do full immersion. And
that can work. I'm not
saying that it doesn't. But
in my experience, I found
that I was a lot
more effective coming in and
just kind of making small
changes to kind of get
people to be more effective
and be able to have
a more agile delivery process.
One of my friends at
Microsoft named Brad Wilson, who
is in the used to
be actually in a group
called the patterns and practices
teams. Now he works on
the asp.net web team always
use this term. Scrummerfall where
he would find a group
that's doing waterfall for doing
kind of classic big design
up front type development. And
then they would start to
introduce agile and they would
do it such a piecemeal
way. They would end up
in this halfway place between
scrum and waterfall and they'd
live in Scrummerfall. And they
think that they were agile,
but it was all just
a big lie. And they
were just doing iterations within
a larger waterfall. And when
you said thinking about you
can come in and you
can say, all right, everybody
stop what you're doing full
immersion. Here's what we're going
to do. It's all agile
all the time. Or you
can start tweaking and make
tiny thing. And then hopefully
they wake up one moment
and they go, Oh, wait
a second. We've been doing
agile and we didn't even
realize it. Right. I think
it, it, it certainly depends
on the team that you're
working with too. Now, the
teams that I've done, you
know, my kind of second
approach to it with have
been smaller teams that I
think were more on board
with at least wanting to
move towards an agile process
and kind of buying the
philosophy, Meaning you didn't have
to sneak it up on
them. I definitely didn't have
to do that. In fact,
I wrote on my web
blog recently, an article, you
know, what is agile really?
And it's, I think the,
you know, agile with a
big a is different than
agile with a little a
and I tend to be
more of a proponent of
the little, a agile. And
I said that there are
basically two questions that you
can ask to see if
a team is agile. One
of those is can you
react immediately? And without panic,
if external constraints on your
project change and the second
question being, do you review
your process frequently and regularly
to make sure that the
answer to the first question
is always yes. And that's
really the essence of agile
to me now, the agile
capital era kind of a
lower case, a agile, I
mean, that's really what is
agility, but kind of the
ability to react to things,
Right? That's almost a proper
definition of agility and that
could even be applied to
a person. Right? And so
certainly a lot of the
agile with a big a
processes like scrum XP, any
of those, they, they don't,
they're, they're not anti agile
with a little a, but
I think that if somebody
just kind of buys the
book and just does those
things by the book without
really understanding the philosophies behind
it, you're kind of doomed
to fail with it. It's
really being agile is about
inspecting your process and regularly
looking at it and making
the changes you need to
make in order to be
more effective. So while I
might start a team saying,
Hey, scrum is a pretty
good place to start. You
know, we look at breaking
up our work and developing
iterations and having kind of
team ownership of everything that's
going on after several iterations,
going through that process and
releasing and seeing what's wrong,
you might end up with
something that doesn't look quite
like scrum. You might have
a lot of it. You
might change some of it
in particular on the project
DX team. When I first
came on there, we were
doing scrum an interesting way
of doing it though, is
that we had basically in
our release cycle, we had
two, three week development sprints.
And then it was followed
by basically a two week
beta where we would go
through and do QA. And
then two weeks of basically
customer data where we'd actually
put it out to the
people that were paying for
the product and let them
kind of go through and
do this. So we ended
up having a 10 week
release cycle, which really didn't
work very well. And that
was the situation when I
first came into the team,
the problem that we'd have
is the reason we had
that release cycle was because
kind of executive management talking
to the customers wanted to
be able to say, Oh,
over the next 10 weeks,
here's the list of things
we're going to deliver. And
this is what it is.
Now, 10 weeks is certainly
a lot shorter than you
get in a lot of
people's release cycles. But the
problem was for us as
a new startup business, the
market changed, or at least
our perception of the market
changed more than once every
10 weeks. So we would
react to that during that
10 week cycle, you get
in, you'd have your plan.
And then two weeks in,
Oh, sorry, we actually got
to do this. And we
would make those adjustments and
deliver things. So at the
end of 10 weeks, we
would deliver something of value
and it would kind of
match what our expectations of
what we needed to have
at that moment where, but
then you'd have kind of
executive management looking at the
list of things you said,
you'd do it over that
10 weeks. And the list
of things you did do,
and they wouldn't match up.
And so there was a
question of, you know, Hey,
why didn't you guys do
what you said you were
going to do well, because
it didn't make sense to
do that. It made sense
to do this. So still
kind of, I was still
in my consulting role at
that point, but we went
through and did some retrospectives
at that point and looked
at it and said, you
know, what, what really is
the purpose of that 10
week cycle? And ended up
out of that, trying a
Kanban process for awhile, And
then just spelled K a
N B a N, just
for those of us who
may not necessarily speak English
or listening to. Right. And
that process largely does away
with the, the concept of
fixed iterations. Yeah. I've got
a Kanban born for myself
actually right here. Yeah. And
it's about mapping the value
stream and kind of taking
one chunk of work and
moving it through and making
sure, okay, done is done.
You don't, you know, deliver
something in the first three
weeks sprint and then wait
four weeks later to find
out, Oh, there's some problems
with it in QA and
then have kind of go
back and fix a whole
bunch of bugs in two
weeks before you actually release
something to production. And so
we tried that for awhile,
worked pretty good in terms
of making sure that things
kind of got out the
way they were supposed to
with, you know, done is
done. But we found that
it did kind of hamper
our predictability of, you know,
well, what does the next
six months look like when
we were only looking kind
of at one thing at
a time ended up from
there, kind of going back
to more of an iterative
planning cycle, but cut it
down from a 10 week
release cycle to saying, well,
we're going to release every
two weeks, no matter what,
and we're gonna plan what
we can fit in there
and whatever actually gets done
and accepted and is fully
done, done makes it into
the release for that sprint.
So when I've worked on
agile teams in the past,
and we start to squeeze
that that 10 weeks or
12 weeks or quarterly or
whatever, the standard releasing into
that kind of ideal two
weeks in two weeks or
three weeks, depending on the
size of the team, kind
of consistently comes up as
the ideal. The number one
thing that come that we
just started discussing or becomes
an issue is of those,
you know, two weeks of
that, that 10 days effectively
10 business days, how many
days are our administrative overhead?
Like what processes are gonna
cost us? Are we gonna
spend an entire day doing
quote unquote, the build or,
or code signing or whatever,
administrivia, that's not directly related
to delivering customer value, but
it's still absolutely has to
be done. How did you
do that? Did you, did
you assign a person in
order to do that? Like
what we ended up doing
in a, in a compiled
world, cause you're a Ruby
person and I'm a dotnet
person. So we're going to
static analysis, kind of where
we have a build and
a build process. And there's
compiler is static analysis and
stuff. We ended up having
a build engineer and we
pushed a lot of the
agile administrivia, you know, onto
that individual. W how does
it work? And I don't
know, In a Ruby world,
so that that's actually been
something that's been pretty interesting
for us over the last
say, three months when we
started back onto the kind
of release every two weeks
cycle for the first month
and a half of that,
it was basically hell for
me, because what was happening
was we'd have developers writing
code on stories at the
time we use get for
our source control. And at
the time everybody was just
contributing basically directly to master.
And then what would happen
is you'd get to kind
of the end of that
two week cycle. You'd have
some of your stories that
were QA and ready to
go, but not always, all
of them got done. And
then I was sitting there,
you know, the day before
we're supposed to go out
and put the release candidate
out to our staging server
and having to kind of
tease apart these commits and
would be in merge hell
whenever I'd have to kind
of pull some commits out
for stories that didn't make
it in. And literally it
was pulling my hair out,
staying till like eight o'clock
in the evening on that
particular day, trying to deal
with merge, commits on code
that I didn't write things
like that. So we basically
instituted some changes with our
process there, where we now
develop each story and its
own branch. We have a,
a production branch in the
repository that always represents what's
actually out in production. And
then once we do a
production release, we make a
sprint branch that's based off
of that. And then the
story branches are based off
of the sprint branch. And
now when we go to
acceptance with a particular feature,
that feature is pushed out
on its own to our
development server for our QA
folks and product owners to
look at and do acceptance.
And then once it's accepted,
it gets merged entirely back
into the sprint branch. And
then anybody else who's working
on features for that release
will rebase that branch off
of the sprint branch at
that time. So that way
whatever's in the sprint is
always QA accepted, done has
done work, and then everybody
else's branch is based off
of that and they move
it in. So now when
we go to do releases,
it's, you know, a five
minute job for me to
actually put it together because
it's basically okay, take the
sprint branch, merge it into
production, push it to staging.
Hi, this is Scott coming
to you from another place
in time. Are you using
agile practices to manage your
software development? There's lots of
tools in the market that
manage the steps of a
project, but most of them
focus on individual roles, get
ready for a solution that
caters for the success of
the whole team guys at
Tellerik introduced team pulse. It's
an agile project management tool.
That'll help you gather ideas,
estimate plan, track progress in
a common workspace. Finally, companies,
regardless of their size can
use a lightweight and convenient
tool that makes all the
stakeholders work as a United
team. Even if they're in
different countries by combining intuitive
user interface and the power
server light team poles removes
the roadblocks that you typically
face and applying agile in
an effective manner, no more
lost data, no disparate systems,
no lack of critical analytics
regarding the health and philosophy
project. See if yourself get
a free copy for five
users in one project at
tellerik.com/team pulse. And please do
thank tolerance for supporting Hansel
minutes on their Facebook fan
page, facebook.com/t L E R
I K Keller. We do
appreciate it. There wouldn't be
a Hansel minutes. If there
wasn't, Tellerik helping us, how
much overhead was involved in
actually putting that together. Cause
sometimes, and I'm going, I'm
not saying this is the
way to it. I'm just
saying, this is the way
that it's happened on teams
I've been involved is there's
sometimes a two weeks, you
know, two week let's all
freak out and get that
stuff done, sprint, like we're
not going to get any
work done at all. We're
just going to learn, get,
or we're going to learn
the new system or whatever.
I mean, how are you
making these incremental changes? Like
you just described how you
have production and then sprints
and then stories. You didn't
just invent that like some
Wednesday morning that, that, that,
that needed to be introduced
and implemented and get everyone
on board and educate them
and then make sure that
everyone does it. Because if,
if that is a human
process that you described, I
mean, the tool is great.
Certainly you could do that
similarly in subversion or other
systems, but ultimately you needed
to get everybody on board.
Was that a two week
sprint to let people know
here's what we're going to
do? Well, honestly, we kind
of had realized the problem
was there for a while.
And my team members kind
of saw me pulling my
hair out and, you know,
occasionally going off on a
rant over a really bad
merge commit, and I was
really stressed out, which wasn't
good for me and it
wasn't good for the team.
So we had essentially a
team meeting at one point
and kind of sat down
and brainstormed how we could
make this better. So everybody
was kind of involved in
inventing the solution we were
going to do. And I
have the advantage of being
on a relatively small team.
There are about eight of
us now, I think on
the development team. So we
didn't have a whole lot
of problems with kind of
instituting that we basically said,
okay, next sprint, we're going
to start doing this and
just made the cut over.
Everybody was already comfortable with
get and branching and merging
and things like that. So
there wasn't a huge transition
for people at that point.
Those are the size of
the team is Ellie. You
said it was eight people.
If it was a hundred,
I would think that would
be a lot more difficult
because of the number of
lines of communication, really to
make sure everybody's on the
same page with a small
team. And when you have
a process that's driven by
the team and a self
organizing team, and they're part
of inventing that solution. I
think it's a lot easier
to get everybody on board
with it. So even if
there are people that don't
necessarily a hundred percent agree
that it's the way we
should go. As long as
you kind of get the
consensus of, well, you know,
I don't want a hundred
percent agree, but I'm willing
to go along with what
the team thinks and we'll
try this for awhile. It
wasn't really that hard to
transition over to that system.
You just brought up an
interesting term. I want you
to dig into a little
bit, you said a self-organizing
team. Talk to me more,
little bit more about what
that means. So it's interesting
and something that I had
to think about too, coming
on as manager of the,
of the software development team
is what is kind of
the manager's role on a
self-organizing team. You know, on
a lot of teams, you
have the manager and you
have the developers kind of
working under them. And the
manager kind of sets all
of the process and how
you're going to do things.
And maybe you'll get some
input from the team, but
ultimately saying, well, this is
the way we're going to
do it, handing it down.
I purposefully viewed my role
as a manager a little
bit differently and see it
as more of a facilitator,
as far as the team
is concerned. In other words,
I'm not any more important
or above anyone on the
team equally important. And I
have a specific role to
fill, which is to kind
of make sure that they
don't have obstacles in their
way to development. They have
the tools they need to
do their job. They have,
you know, the purpose, they
have kind of the goal
of what they're trying to
achieve. And other than that,
I think the, the process
that's used for development and
the way that they're going
to do the work, if
you've hired reasonably good software
developers in the first place,
you know, they're professionals, you
can trust them to kind
of work together and figure
out what the best way
is for them to do
their job. As long as
they know what they're supposed
to be doing. You know,
you can have that discussion
and work together and say,
this is the process together
that we come up with
and think will work the
best for us so that
we can deliver this software,
you know, at high quality
and in a reasonable amount
of time. So this might
be a silly analogy, but
my mind always puts things
as I'm learning, I'm trying
to absorb what you're saying.
And then I put it
into an analogy that works
for me. And I wonder
if you think this works
for other people, but it's
kind of like, you know,
swimming, doing a swimming relay
and except the rules are
a little bit more loose
than Olympic swimming. This guy
wants to do freestyle and
that guy wants to do
a backstroke. That's totally up
to you, but we're heading
that direction. And the rules
are, we stay within these
lines and we know what
our goal is. And we're
going to try to beat
our time, swim any way
you want to. You're a
professional, just get that direction
as long as we all
point in the right way.
Yes and no. I think
that the, the, the basics
of that are correct. And
certainly there, I think the,
you need to make room
for every individual developer to
have some flexibility in the
way they are going to
work at the same time.
It's it would be sort
of like a, a relay
where, you know, you have
several people on your team
swimming at one time and
you want to coordinate those
people. So there does need
to be a, a little
bit more consensus around the
way people are working. Where's
the room for creativity though.
I mean, that's one of
the things, sometimes the more
senior, like you, you, you
kind of said without saying
that, well, if you hired
senior guys, you know, they
know what they're doing and
you trust them, but at
the same say senior, I
know. And I know you
danced around that. Why didn't
you say senior? Because I
think that there is, you
know, I think some people
have an innate ability to
do software development. Well, I'm
not saying it's something that
necessarily can't be learned. I
think if somebody wants to
learn it, they will learn
to do it. Well. Yeah.
Well, one of my old
bosses said, if you're putting
together a basketball team, you
can't teach height. Right, right.
But you know, at the
same time I have some
relatively young software developers on
my team who I look
at and say, wow, these
people are going to be
really great at this and
are really great at this
currently. So it wasn't a
matter of seniority. It was
more, a matter of attitude,
really a sense of professionalism,
craftsmanship, if you will, that
they really care about doing
it. Right. And not only
about doing it right, because
doing it right at the
expense of the customer, isn't
necessarily such a good thing,
but doing it right in
such a way that the
customer is also satisfied with
what you're doing, That is
such a hard thing to
quantify, to even discuss. I
made a weak attempt a
number of years ago, where
I wrote a blog post
called the five Oh one
developer. And I described this
developer was like, Hey, it's
five o'clock Oh, it's five
Oh one. Hey, can I,
can I punch out? You
know, I'm going to go
home. And people missed the
point. They thought I was
talking about your level of
commitment to the number of
hours at work. When I
refer to a guy who
is a five Oh one
developer, I'm referring to the
opposite of what you just
described. You know, you want
a person who, who is
a steward of the code.
When you say collective code
ownership, they like, Oh yeah,
we as a group, as
a collective own, this, this
thing, that's that sense of,
of aesthetic to the overall
project and the way that
it runs, how do you
teach that? You know, how
do you, it's like, it's
like a, an art appreciation
class, you know, we should
teach code appreciation classes in
college so that people can
come out and appreciate that
when a team is really
working on all cylinders and
everything's firing, that's just a
beautiful thing. I mean, you
must have those sprints where
it's just like two or
three sprints in a row.
It's just like, boom, boom,
boom, Hey man, we're releasing
software and it's awesome. And
everybody from the junior guy
to the senior guy is
playing their role. Yeah. I
mean, that is something that
we still struggle with. I
think of how to organize
things during a sprint. So
it's, I don't want to
pretend that I have all
the answers and that, Oh,
if I'm mandating a team,
everything's going to go swimmingly
That's utopia over there. We
should all work at your
company. That's kind of the
point of agile development. As
you can never assume that
you always have to inspect
what you're doing, because not
only are you not going
to get it right, but
the environment around you changes
too. So you, even if
you had it perfect for
one sprint, the same thing
might not work the next
sprint for whatever reason. Well,
back to this, back to
my, my, my now I
realizing poor swimming analogy, where
is the room for creativity
then? Cause when I was
kind of trying to put
that together, I'm thinking about
everyone has their own style
and their own way to
do things. Sometimes when I
have had processes kind of
imposed upon me from above
my, my reaction as the
developer on the ground is
that this is really cramping.
My style. Do you mean,
are these processes so lightweight
that no one feels like
their, their, their, their being
their creativity or their, their,
their sense of aesthetic is,
is being oppressed at all?
I would hope that the
answer on my team is
that they don't feel that
way. Certainly no one's specifically
told me that they feel
that way. And what room
does architecture play? So We
have one person on our
team right now who is
the, the architect software architect
for our platform. He's relatively
new at doing that job.
He was the original one
person, a developer that was
on the team when I
originally started consulting with them.
So he's kind of grown
the system from the ground
up, understands what's there the
best, but in terms of
doing formal software architecture is
very new at doing that.
So it's a learning experience
for him. And I think
a learning experience for the
team in terms of how
we're going to work within
those bounds. I kind of
see it as his position,
being, looking at the whole
platform from kind of the
macro level and saying, okay,
we have this big application
here and this other part
that fits into it. And
how are those going to
communicate across what are, what
are the API is going
to be? What, what are
the data formats going to
be? How do we make
sure it's open and extensible,
things like that, but specifically
not getting into the level
of, okay, you're going to
use this class and call
it this. And it's going
to have these specific methods
on it inside that his
job is to kind of
have the whole view of
the system across whatever sub
teams we may eventually come
up with and make sure
that it all gels together
really nicely. How does that
fit together in terms of
user stories? Because I can
understand where a, you know,
Joe, developer's going to make
some screens and the neck,
that's a very clear user
story and you can describe
the interactions and it's specked
out and that person can
then start running in their
direction and do their thing.
Then you've got architecture guy,
who's got a vision in
his mind that may span
multiple sprints. What are those
stories look like? And how
does he work that into
an agile process? I'm not
sure that those work terms
of a user story, I
think at that point, it's
important that your overall product
has some cohesion to it.
And some, you know, mission
statement about what is the
big thing that we're doing.
And so he's gonna look
at, you know, kind of
a six month or 12
month plan of where in
general, do we think we're
headed with this product and
it may change during that
time. And he may have
to go back to the
drawing board with some things,
but he doesn't need to
look out that far and
kind of see what components
we think are going to
be involved in here and
start working on how those
are going to come together.
So, so it's definitely a
larger level than the specific,
Oh, the user is gonna
click on this and see
this and fulfill this specific
need. It's more about, you
know, how can we make
sure this whole platform is
designed in such a way
that when we get a
user story that we maybe
weren't really expecting, we can
still adapt to that pretty
easily. Sometimes trying to think
a little bit more about
what I was, what I
was trying to express before
about creativity is it's a
saying that, you know, everyone
wants to be the architect,
but here you said that
you, you basically assign that
to one, one person. So
the, the team agrees that
that one individual is going
to be focusing on architecture.
Yeah, I think, you know,
No, his position is definitely
to be the one who
kind of has that in
his mind and is drawing
up, you know, whatever level
of documentation we may need,
both for communication inside our
team, as well as communication
to external stakeholders about what
we're doing. It is important.
And the person that's doing
it for us agrees that
it's important that he's not
in some, you know, room
away from us kind of
doing this in a vacuum.
He takes input from the
team. You know, we meet
and talk about these things.
He's getting ideas. He's just
ultimately the go to person
for, okay, given all of
the discussion we've had, what
is, you know, the consensus
and what is the design
of this going forward. So
I think it is important
to have one person that
you can go to who,
you know, has a really
good handle on that. And
then kind of finally want
to come back to where
we started, which was that
you started as a consultant.
And you said that there
was something about this team
that made you want to
invest in their success more.
You wanted to stick around.
I mean, it's almost like
as a consultant and I've
done this too. I call
it white boarding for money.
You know, you're kind of
flitting from place to place.
And this is kind of
serial monogamy. And you spend
time with someone for six
months and six months, and
then you basically decided to
marry this, this group drop
out of the single life.
And now you're married and
you're building a family here
at your new, at your
new company. Was it the,
was it the personalities of
the guys? Was it the
size, the group? What, what,
what, what caused you to
switch from an agile coach
that went from place to
place doing something fresh every
day? You know, honestly, it
was the amount of fun
I was having just working
with the guys that were
there. You know, it was,
it was both fun. You
know, I, I looked forward
to getting up and going
to work every single day.
There, there hasn't been a
day since I've been with
this team where I've thought,
man, I don't really want
to go to work today.
And that's not been true
in all of my jobs.
And it was, you know,
the specific personalities of the
people on the team. I
think, you know, she use
the term, a real family
atmosphere where you feel like,
okay, these aren't just people
I work with, but are
people that I care about
on a personal level, I
care what's happening in their
lives. And you know, they
care what's happening in my
life. And that just makes
it so much more enjoyable
when you're going to spend
eight to 10 hours a
day with a group of
people, if you actually get
along really well. I discovered
that, you know, my real
passion in life and my
career is making sure that
people enjoy their jobs. You
spend so much of your
time doing your work, that
if you don't like it,
and you're not really passionate
about what you're doing, that's
really sad and you should
look at your life and
what you're doing for a
living and try to bring
your work in line with
kind of what your passion
is. Software development wasn't necessarily
my first choice as a
career, I actually originally wanted
to be a recreational therapist,
believe it or not got
into software development because you
know, my wife and I
had a kid very young
and it was something that,
you know, I could earn
a decent living at and
money was a very important
back then. It is every
software engineer that I I've
talked to is like, well,
I do it for the
money. Well, it is actually
kind of fun, but one
day I'll have so much
money that I'll go back
and do that thing that
I originally wanted to do.
I think that, You know,
for awhile, I thought that,
but what I've found is
that as I've gotten more
experience and kind of moved
up the ladder a little
bit, I found myself in
a position where I can
actually bring software development in
line with my personality and
my overall goals of helping
people and helping people enjoy
their lives. And I think
that's why I decided to
make that transition from, you
know, a pure technical practitioner
into managing a team because
when I had that opportunity
to kind of protect what
was going on at, you
know, on the project, the
X team, I wanted to
kind of take that and
make sure that as the
team grew, we maintained that
atmosphere where the people on
the team really felt that
they were enjoying their work,
wanting to come to work.
Very cool. Well, thank you
so much, John. Logar for
hanging out with me today
and sharing your experience, moving
from a consultant into a
time agile role At a
company. I really appreciate it.
Thanks, Scott. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.